This document describes how a mail system administrator can get up and
running with the BATV milter.  If you're an individual user looking to
use BATV for yourself, see quickstart.standalone.txt.

If you have installed the Debian package for batv-milter,
consult README.Debian instead, as some of these steps have been
automated/simplified for you.

0. GENERATE A KEY

	First you need to generate a cryptographic key:

		batv-keygen -f /etc/batv-key

	You may wish to use a separate key for each domain you administer,
	in which case you can generate multiple keys with distinct
	filenames.  The filenames don't matter (you configure them using
	the "key map" mechanism described below).


1. CONFIGURE batv-milter

	batv-milter is configured with a configuration file whose path
	you specify using the --config command line option.  You can start
	with the example configuration file in examples/batv-milter.conf.

	The most important options are:

		socket -- the path to the milter socket file.  You need
		to place the socket file in a directory that exists
		and can be accessed by your MTA.  If you use Postfix
		chroot'd, you should put it somewhere under the chroot
		(typically /var/spool/postfix).

		key-map -- the path to the key map file, described below.

		internal-host -- specifies an IP address or subnet which
		is considered "internal."  This option can be specified
		multiple times, once for each internal host/subnet.
		Only mail originating from these hosts/subnets (or from
		authenticated senders) is signed with BATV.  Both IPv4
		and IPv6 addresses are supported.

		sub-address-delimiter -- use the non-standard BATV
		meta syntax based on sub-addressing using the given
		sub-address delimiter (typically '+').  This syntax is
		recommended because it has several advantages over the
		standard syntax, as described in README.

		user, group -- the user and group which batv-milter
		should run as.  It is highly recommended that you run
		batv-milter as a non-root user.

		on-invalid -- set this to 'accept' or 'reject' to control
		what the milter does with invalid bounces.  The default
		is accept.


2. CONFIGURE YOUR KEY MAP FILE

	The key map (whose path is specified by the key-map option,
	typically set to /etc/batv-keys.conf) maps senders to key files.
	You can specify either an entire email address or just a domain
	name.  The following key map file instructs batv-milter to sign
	all outgoing mail from example.com using the key in /etc/batv-key:

		@example.com /etc/batv-key


3. CONFIGURE YOUR MTA

	Configure your MTA to use the milter at the socket path specified
	in your batv-milter configuration file.  If your MTA is running
	chroot'd, be sure to specify a path relative to the chroot
	directory.  Make sure your MTA uses the milter for both SMTP
	and for locally-originated mail.  With Postfix, this requires
	adding the milter to both 'smtpd_milters' and 'non_smtpd_milters'.

	Example for Postfix, assuming a /var/spool/postfix chroot:

		smtpd_milters = unix:/batv-milter/batv-milter.sock
		non_smtpd_milters = unix:/batv-milter/batv-milter.sock

	Your MTA needs read and write access to the milter socket file.
	You can accomplish this by running batv-milter as the same user
	as your MTA, or by adding your MTA user to the group which
	batv-milter runs as, and setting batv-milter's 'socket-mode'
	option to 660 to ensure the socket is group-accessible.

	If you are using the sub-address syntax, ensure your MTA is
	configured to use the same sub-address delimiter as specified
	in the batv-milter config file.  Example for Postfix, using '+':

		recipient_delimiter = +

	If you aren't using the sub-address syntax, you'll need to
	configure your MTA not to treat BATV addresses as unknown local
	recipients.  This is complicated and beyond the scope of this
	document, which is why the sub-address syntax is recommended.

	If using Postfix, you may want to set the
	internal_mail_filter_classes option so that milters are applied
	to locally-generated bounces; see "Postfix Notes" in milter.txt
	for details.


4. (RE)START THE DAEMONS

	Start the batv-milter daemon by running:

		batv-milter --config /path/to/config

	Make sure this runs when the system boots.

	Restart your MTA so it starts using the milter.


5. FILTER BACKSCATTER

	Unless you set 'on_invalid' to 'reject', you'll need to use a
	program such as procmail or SpamAssassin to filter backscatter
	based on the X-Batv-Status header.  See filtering.txt for tips
	and examples.

